---
title: Website info and how-to
author: Torre Wenaus
layout: default
abbrev: howto
weight: 30
---

## {{ page.title }}

*This is a slightly modified version of Michel Jouvin's documentation for the HSF site. See also the [Jekyll for beginners page](/misc/jekyll-beginners.html).*

## About the NPPS website

This site is maintained by Torre Wenaus and other NPPS members.
If you're interested to contribute, contact Torre.
It was bootstrapped from the [HSF website](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org), which was originally developed by Torre Wenaus and Benedikt Hegner.

## Implementation

This website is implemented using [GitHub's Pages](https://pages.github.com/) service which makes it easy to create a website associated with a GitHub account or project. Pages uses [Jekyll](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/), a tool to automatically build a website from source files (which are kept in GitHub). It supports structured sites like blogs in a simple but powerful way. It produces a very fast website as all pages are pre-built as static web pages.
The site content is written using the easy [Markdown syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax) (which is used by GitHub itself).

**A [Jekyll for beginners page](/misc/jekyll-beginners.html) provides some useful hints to make using Jekyll in the NPPS context easier.**

## How to add and edit information

For developing the site the main editors use push. Less frequent contributors can use the *[pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/)* approach.
To use the pull request workflow, fork the [website repository](https://github.com/BNLNPPS/BNLNPPS.github.io), edit the
files you want to edit, push them to your fork, and open a pull request.

You can easily (to the extent that installing Ruby is easy, and it isn't) set up a local instance of the site in order to preview your submissions. This makes the mod-test-iterate cycle local and very fast, and ensures that what you ultimately upload is debugged.
See the [documentation](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/)
on installing and running Jekyll.
The website uses the master branch of the BNLNPPS.github.io repository.

Another approach is to use the online service netlify.com to preview your changes. A free account is sufficient for this purpose.

If you are not familiar with GitHub and Git, you can read the HSF's [survival kit](https://hepsoftwarefoundation.org/github-beginners.html)!

### General structure of website content files

All Markdown files of this site start with a section surrounded by `---`. This
so-called *front-matter* contains metadata about the content. Such metadata are,
e.g., the author of the document or the title of the document.

In the *front-matter* (but not in the text itself), you need to replace any `&` characters (which has a special meaning in HTML) by `&amp;`. This is particularly important for the `title` attribute.

### Adding experiments/projects, tech teams, software

Add a new file in the `_experiments`, `_techteams` or `_software` directory and follow the *front-matter* of the
other files in there. The content of the navigation bar and front page will
be updated automatically: the menu entry text is the `title` attribute in the *front-matter* section. Note the metadata in the *front-matter* that relates experiments, tech teams, software, and people (in `_people`), from which their relationships are autogenerated on the web pages.

### Adding news or announcements

Add a new file in `announcements/_posts` and follow the front matter of the other files in there. The front page will
get a new box with all information.

Please don't forget adding an event ``until`` in the *front-matter*: this is used for ordering events **and** as the end date
for adding the event in the ``Upcoming Events`` sidebar.

### Adding slides and documents

Add the new item to `_data/assets.yml`. Note the metadata on the items there. If the item is at a link, you're done, just be sure to include metadata for date and type (slides/document). If you have corresponding material like a pdf to add, add it under `assets/`. Follow the placement (slides/documents subdirectory) and naming conventions (date comes first in name). If you enter metadata for experiment, software, and tech team in `assets.yml` the item will show up on the appropriate experiment, software, and tech team pages (as well as the author's page).

## Technical details

### Page templates

As of writing, this website contains the following page templates for wider usage:

* default - every page inherits from this
* event - to be used for events
* newsletter - to be used for news items and announcements
* plain - to be used for standard contents
* main - the main page w/ boxes
* minutes - used for meeting minutes (the template adds forward / backward navigation links)

### Menu bar and automatization

The menu bar is defined in `_includes/navbar.ext`, from which all page layouts inherit.
The layout is somewhat hard-coded, but experiments, tech teams, and software menus are generated
automatically.

### Main page

The main page contains three blocks, mostly hard-coded:

* An *activities* block, that serves as an entry point to the main sections of the website
* A *meetings* block, with links to the minutes of the last three meetings
  auto-generated (not presently active)
* A news item that holds a small snippet of current important information (not presently active)

They are filled with *[Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki)* snippets.

## Useful references

* [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) to build websites from plain text
* The [Liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki) template engine used by Jekyll
* [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax) syntax
